Using Twitter and other social media to make predictions and business
decisions could be valuable, but transforming a complex social network
into usable data is not an easy task.

To transform this data into something useful, we first must find a way to
extract some signal from all the noise present in the social network.

The exact definition of signal is project dependent, but I believe that it may
be possible, regardless of the project, to find signal by uncovering how
different people are connected and how information moves through these
connections.

With an understanding of a social network's structure, analysts can focus
specifically on areas of the network through which important information moves
and ignore the rest.

---

Effective visualization of Twitter can help generate insight into this
structure.

To create an effective visualizations, it is useful to break Twitter
down into "layers" and create a visualization of each layer.

The first layer of interest is the information layer.

This layer is the most basic layer of the system.

Here we need a visualization that allows us to see how a single piece of
information moves and behaves in the network.

In the context of Twitter, the unit of information is a Tweet, and the
information moves when a Tweet is Retweeted.

Looking at this layer, insight into the general idea of the behavior of pieces
of information moving through the system can be determined.

This can help in prediction because outliers can be found.

If a piece of information doesn't seem to be following the trend that has been
established for other similar pieces of information, it is probably important.

An effective visualization at this layer must also convey something about the
nature of the network (Is interest short lived, do people outside of original
poster's network generally see Tweets, etc.)

The next interesting layer is a collection of pieces of information.

We need a way to compare many pieces of information that are logically grouped
somehow.

In Twitter, this is an account.

An account makes many Tweets, so we need a way to look at some subset of the
Tweets posted by an account.

This visualization will help generate insight into what Tweets posted by someone
are actually signal, and what Tweets ultimately become unimportant.

An effective visualization at this layer also must expose something about the
nature of the accounts (Do they post many meaningless tweets and a few important
ones?)

The final layer is the network as a whole, or some subset of it.

In Twitter, this means finding a compact way to visualize many accounts
simultaneously.

Using these visualizations it should be possible to explore the Twitter network
and gain some insight into the structure of social networks, so that predictions
can be made looking at more signal than noise.
